# HAT_modelling
Supporting code for a MSc group project "using age data to improve targeted intervention campaigns against African sleeping sickness in Guinea."

The model is an extension of an existing model [1] developed by the HAT MEPP group at the University of Warwick [https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/zeeman_institute/new_research/combatting_disease/hat/hatmepp/](url), which has been used extensively to study transmission dynamics of Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT, or African sleeping sickness). The extension accounts for transmission in different age and gender categories for the most at-risk areas of Guinea. The model has been fitted to reported case data using Bayesian statistical methods to learn information regarding the relative risk of demographic cohorts to fly bites and infection. With this in mind, we modelled a novel testing strategy which explicity targeted the highest-risk group. Future projections implied that these strategies were more likely to achieve elimination of transmission by 2030, aligning with the goals set out by the World Health Organization.

Note: The two data sets used in this study cannot be shared publicly, but the data holders can be contacted for those seeking access. The demographic case data were aggregated from original data collection by the Guinean National Sleeping Sickness Control Programme (PNLTHA-Guinee). The digitised version is under the stewardship of TrypaNO!. Data is available to researchers who meet the criteria for access to confidential data from TrypaNO!, who should contact Paul Bessell (prbessell@gmail.com). The long-term historical case data (2000-2022) is reported annually by the World Health Organization. Interested parties should apply to the WHO (contact J.R. Franco, francoj@who.int) in order to gain access.

[1] Crump RE, Huang CI, Spencer SEF, Brown PE, Shampa C, Mwamba Miaka E, et al. Modelling to infer the role of animals in gambiense human African trypanosomiasis transmission and elimination in the DRC. PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases. 2022;16(7):1–21
